Let's chant Buddha's name together
[music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni
Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni
[music] Namo Buddha Shakyamuni Dear all,
today,
September 24th, 2012, we
continue our 7-day mindfulness meditation practice.
Yesterday was the
first day. Are you tired? Yes, you are. It's the first time, and you're tired mentally, right?
Cutting everything off like that. Sometimes, being
remembered and loved
makes you feel better. But
now, being cut off, your mind struggles, and that makes you tired.
Maybe
last night someone lay awake thinking about their children, grandchildren, or even their
cat or
dog at home, and that made them tired, right?
This is very normal;
everyone feels that way, right? We let go of
the old to make the new, and it all brings
fatigue. Yes, then we have to sit in meditation for
several periods, and we have to chant scriptures.  Walking
meditation is also very tiring. Although it seems like a
leisurely stroll,
it's still tiring because you have to concentrate and focus your mind, right?
So today we will continue the
Dharma teachings from yesterday.
Yesterday, I introduced to the congregation how to
shift
our focus.
Before, we cared about everything
in the world, a hundred things, a thousand things,
wanting to know everything, but
we focused outwards, especially on
external pleasures that brought us,
forgetting about this body and mind. We
say our parents gave us this body and mind,
but in reality, this is the merit we
accumulated over countless lifetimes. It's
not even a little bit of the merit of being human that we receive.
Parents
are just the cause and effect, contributing to our
birth; they don't give us anything.
In fact, we ourselves have
accumulated merit over many lifetimes to
get this little bit of merit to be born as a human being, even
though it's a bit hunched and ugly.  Just a little bit,
right? That's already very precious.
But having this human body means
we must cherish this body and mind,
because without this body and mind, nothing
in the world would exist. We see
everything in this world because of
us, because of this body and mind of ours. Even
our husband, our children, our house, our possessions, our
world, our nation—everything
exists because of us, because of this body and mind.
So, let's
summarize, let's see again: The issue of
this body and mind is the most important issue
from the moment we learn to think. We must know how to
contemplate and immediately see the
extremely important and perhaps very urgent issue:
this body and mind. Why do
I say it's urgent? Because death can
come at any time for us.
A monk answered the Buddha,
and the Buddha praised him for understanding the Dharma.
That is, we only live in
each breath. Our life
is the sum of many breaths. If we breathe out
without inhaling, we die. Breathing out
without inhaling...  If we go any further, we'll die.
So, truly, our
living is about adding, adding, adding, adding, adding
each breath,
living each breath. Therefore, if someone is
aware of impermanence, they will see that
understanding and contemplating
this body and mind is an
urgent and important task. It's not something that can be taken lightly.
Only those who don't understand anything
about impermanence can be leisurely and
relaxed like this. But those who
truly understand impermanence realize they
must understand this body and mind, they must shift their attention and
concern back to their own body and
mind.
Sometimes, it's even more important than food and clothing.
For those who have
awakened to impermanence, they realize they must
return to understand this body and mind,
see the true reality of this body and mind. This is
very
important. All living beings are
governed by impermanence;
life is very fragile. But we
forget this fragility. We
think we'll live long, not even a
hundred years, at least eighty, right?
Thinking like that...
This thought, this belief... It belongs to
a wrong view, everyone knows this is a wrong
view, clinging to
permanence. There are two wrong views: clinging to permanence
and clinging to impermanence. We keep thinking, "Oh, I'm
sure I'll live to be 70 years old." I would
n't dare say that, I'm being humble, I wouldn't dare
think I'll live to be 10 years old, I'll live to
be 70 or 80 years old. That's clinging to permanence,
clinging to the belief that we will live to this day and
this month is a disease of clinging to permanence, and it
belongs to a wrong view, ladies and gentlemen. We see that
most of
us suffer from this wrong view, most of us, that's why
we don't see impermanence. Impermanence is right in every moment. The teacher often tells the audience, in Zen there's a saying, "Tonight you go to bed, tomorrow you may not be able to get out of bed." That's the truth. We must be aware of
this, only then
can we truly appreciate this body and mind,
because this is the result of
many lifetimes of doing good deeds to
have this body and mind now.  It's
not as beautiful as anyone else's, but it's still
called a person, it's called a person,
to use it for practice, to reach
enlightenment. Yesterday's lesson was what
the teacher
shared with the audience so that everyone could
see. The most important issue, the one
worth paying attention to, isn't about
where the war is, or
where this and that are, but about our body and mind.
And this is about
loving ourselves, right? We love ourselves,
even though sometimes we don't know anything
about ourselves, we think we're this way or that way.
But this is loving ourselves, and the
Buddha also called this self-benefit,
right? There's no benefit to others, but
don't forget the self-benefit part. This benefit is
n't about giving money or possessions to yourself.
This benefit is about enlightenment
of your body and mind. Only with self-benefit
can you benefit others. This is
very specific; the
audience must be aware of this,
right? Today we continue with lesson 1.
Yesterday's lesson wasn't finished yet; we'll move on to the
second part, all of that.  What
I said yesterday, what I shared
with the audience, was so that
from today onwards we would know the importance of
this body and mind, pay attention to this body and mind, shift our
focus back to this body and mind, observe
this body and mind,
understand this body and mind, and learn
how to comprehend it, see the truth
about it, see the truth about it.
Buddhism is truth, and truth is also
truth. Because from ancient times until now, we have been ignorant,
we haven't understood it, we have
n't seen it correctly, we haven't
seen the truth. Buddhism is truth,
truth means seeing the truth, seeing the
true nature of things. That's the truth. So today
we must find that way. So,
all of you, let's begin to know the truth. We value
this body and mind while it is still present in this world, we
must know how to return to it, understand it, and
see the truth about it. So, the
tool
I want to bring to the audience now to understand this body and mind, to explore this body and mind, to see the truth about it,
is meditation. Let's move
on to the second part.
Mindfulness meditation is
also the
theme of our entire retreat.
Mindfulness meditation is
a small part of our exploration of what meditation is. We all know the word "meditation," right? It's so
familiar that it's
become a trend; people talk about meditation everywhere, boasting about it, saying things like, "I've studied
meditation, I've practiced
meditation, maybe even stronger than I am," and "That's how you achieve meditation."
But what exactly is meditation? When we go
to the temple, people say, "I'm going to meditate." Entering a temple is called entering the gate of
meditation, and
later people started saying it differently, like "meditation gate," meaning "the gate of meditation." The term "meditation temple" comes
from
that word. So, what exactly is meditation?
This retreat isn't a
course focused on in-depth theory, so
I'll only discuss the basics and fundamentals. But,
dear audience, the
definition of meditation has many
complexities, so I'll only
discuss the fundamentals and common
understandings that you might already have.  The traditional view is that
when people talk about meditation, they all think of
it as a Buddhist practice.
But the truth is, meditation
existed even
before the Buddha's birth. It existed for a
very long time in various religions and faiths,
especially in India. Even in Brahmanism, there were meditation practices before the Buddha; it was
n't just Buddhism.
Later, many other religions
also developed meditation, for example, Catholicism and Hinduism.
There are many meditation methods. Before the Buddha, for instance, there was Uga meditation, which
existed a very long time ago. Then there was yoga, which
people also called meditation, also
before the Buddha. And then there's Qigong meditation,
chakra meditation, energy meditation, and health-
preserving meditation, right?
Many different kinds of
meditation have
emerged. So we know, but...
but all these things...  Those meditation methods
before the Buddha did not lead people to
enlightenment. There were many meditation methods
before the Buddha; the congregation should note them down to remember. I
am saying there are
many meditation methods, many
meditation methods
before the Buddha. I mean before the
Buddha attained enlightenment, before Prince
Siddhartha attained enlightenment. But these meditation methods did not lead people to enlightenment. The focus here is on
human beings, not other beings. Enlightenment
here is what? Enlightenment of the
truth, seeing the reality, but
not achieving liberation.
What is liberation? Liberation from the cycle of
birth and death. There were
many meditation methods before,
as I just mentioned, and that's
not all. There are many more types of meditation,
but none of them led to enlightenment or
liberation. Only
when the
Buddha practiced and attained enlightenment did he
present his meditation method, and
that method could
lead sentient beings to enlightenment.  Enlightenment and liberation—
that's the general idea. The
Buddha gave a method of
meditation to lead sentient beings to enlightenment
and liberation. The Buddha
himself practiced this meditation method
to achieve enlightenment.
According to Mahayana Buddhism, it was within 49 days.
In Theravada Buddhism,
however, it's not stated as 49 days.
Mahayana Buddhism says that within
49 days, the Buddha practiced
this meditation method and
attained enlightenment.
Afterward, he taught it to
us, to humanity, to the gods,
and to all sentient beings so they could understand.
So,
to have a universal definition of meditation,
we must include everything else—what
people call meditation, what we call chakra
meditation, what we
call meditation, etc. So,
we just talk about what meditation is, and then we
divide it into different categories.
So now...
First, let's define
what meditation is.
Let's go into the definition of meditation.
This definition of meditation requires
a bit of research. So, what is meditation?
We see that even non-Buddhists say they are meditating, "
I am meditating." Those who practice
yoga also say they
are meditating.
Those who sit and
murmur mantras might also say they are meditating.
So,
what is meditation? The
original meaning of the word "meditation" is in Sanskrit.
It's the word "di
di."
Teacher, let's expand on this. The word "meditation"
in its original
Sanskrit is like this. So, we
see Diana reading it, and it sounds very similar to "
meditation," right? Therefore, we
read it as "meditation," and translated into Chinese, it's
called "Na meditation," which is
Na meditation. And we say "meditation"
in the way it's in
Chinese. That's it. And in
Japanese, they call this meditation "gen."  It's called "gen"
in Japanese, and the Chinese say we translate it into
Japanese, and people know that "gen" is what they hear
as meditation. In English, it's called meditation,
right,
Medi? And in Japanese, it's called "
gen," but here, the original Sanskrit word
is "
[music]
Di," and the Chinese translate it as "
meditation," which is a rough translation of the sound.
Meditation is translated into meaning,
meaning the meaning of these things is called
thinking, cultivating, and
practicing. Some people also call it "
quiet contemplation." The
public can note this down
here so we can gradually arrive at the definition
of meditation. We have to find the original meaning, the
original meaning of the word. In Sanskrit,
it's "di," and then it's
translated into other languages. We
say meditation, according to the Chinese, they
translate it as "Zen Na," and then shorten it to "meditation." The
word "Zen" is very
similar in pronunciation to "Tian Na," "Tian Tian Na." So
now, but the meaning, in the past,
the masters translated it as "thinking, cultivating,
practicing," meaning sitting and thinking,
meaning thinking using a method of thinking,
contemplating.
That's what meditation is called, sitting still and contemplating. Contemplating a problem,
sitting quietly to think. That's called meditation,
or quiet contemplation. "Quiet contemplation"
means stillness, quiet contemplation, or
reflection. The word "contemplation" also means thinking,
pondering, but it's thinking
in that quietness.
Do you understand?
We must
start with the etymology to find the
clue. Perhaps you all
went to India in the past, right? Then you saw people
meditating. Most of the
first meditation methods involved sitting in a certain
posture. You just sat there quietly, and
then you didn't know what you were thinking about,
so you called it "
contemplative practice." Probably sitting and thinking about something.
Surely it wasn't just sitting there without thinking, so it should be
translated as "contemplative practice" or "
quiet contemplation." "Quiet" means sitting still and thinking. That
's the old concept of
meditation. Isn't that
right? Then we see
all the methods that
people call meditation.  It's all
related to the mind, whether it's practicing yoga,
turning chakras, or practicing Qigong.
Whatever it is, it's all related to
this mind, and people call it
meditation. Here, I'm talking about the
general concept of the word "meditation" so that
everyone can understand it later. So,
we see, "Ah, so what
people call meditation is the
way of
working with the mind, right? It's
about taming, training, and
managing the
mind. That's what people call meditation, okay?
Now, I'll write for
everyone so we can have a
general, universal definition. The definition of meditation
is the
methods—I'll abbreviate the word 'methods'
with 'p2' for quickness—methods
to tame
[music]
the mind, train the mind, tame the
mind, train the mind, manage the
mind. Managing it is
also management,
you know?
Managing the
mind makes
the mind easier to use,
makes the mind easier to use, and calms it down
and brings peace.
We can understand that one can have...
One definition of meditation is
this: all methods
that people use to
train, subdue,
manage, and control the mind, making
it calmer, easier to use, and
more stable, are called
meditation. Indeed, practicing meditation
will lead to certain results,
but the extent and level of these results
are what we need to
consider. Even the meditation taught by the Buddha
later on is not beyond this. It's about subduing,
training, and
managing the mind so that it becomes
calm, pliable, easy to
use, and stable. Now, the question is, how does it become
stable, and how does it become pliable? That's the whole issue. Only then
can we understand the meaning of
meditation. That is, all the things
people do with their minds—they all
call it meditation. Sitting with
legs crossed, right? Or practicing Qigong,
channeling energy, or other internal exercises—these
are all ways to
train the mind or sitting still.  Glaring at the sun... Is
n't it true that ignoring the sun is also a
way to meditate, to train
one's mind in many ways, dear audience? That's how
we understand the
definition of meditation. It's
universal
and has existed since before the
Buddha's time. Before the Buddha, there
were meditation practices like
this; people had already begun to explore the mind,
right? Those who were
busy with earning a living didn't
think about the mind, but some people who were
free and had the means, like the Brahmins and those
in higher social classes, who had everything,
now
thought about it and
began to explore it, about the body and mind, and
they devised
these methods to control the mind. That's it, dear
audience. Understanding the definition of
meditation, we see that the word "meditation"
is used quite universally, not
just in
Buddhism, so
other religions also use it.  That's all meditation, but
now the question is, which meditation? Right meditation or
wrong meditation? That's the question. Meditation is
like this, like this... Now
let's explore another concept:
the word "concentration." We often
talk about meditation and concentration. What is concentration?
We often talk about meditation, and then
we have the word "concentration" after it.
So what is concentration? The etymology of
this word,
in Sanskrit, is "samth" or "
samadi." The word "concentration"
is written as "samadi,"
or "
stha," "samatha." The Chinese translate it
as "samadhi."
We've heard of this before,
the "fire of Samadhi," right? Especially
in martial arts stories, they often talk about
Samadhi. What is Samadhi? Samadhi is
simply concentration, that's all. The word
Samadhi comes from the word "
samatan." People call it Samadhi. The
original meaning from
Sanskrit is "sti"
or "
samth."  Our translation is "
samadhi," and its meaning is actually "peace and tranquility."
So,
what does "peace and tranquility" mean here? It means a state of mind that is still and
tranquil. It's a state of mind that is
focused and tranquil, or it means concentration, concentration, concentration.
This concentration is this attention. That's "peaceful concentration"
or "calm concentration."
It means it's
still, it's still and tranquil in what form?
For example, the teacher says that the Buddhists
are sitting still in one place,
but sitting still like me, still able to
move, is still called sitting still,
right? But sitting absolutely still, sitting perfectly still
like this, for example, the teacher can say that
the Buddhists are still sitting still,
someone is sitting still in that place, but
this stillness is sitting still but still able to move,
still able to look forward and backward.
Only the buttocks don't
move, right? The word "tranquility" has
many levels, the word "peace and
tranquility" also has many levels.
What kind of stillness is it?  Do you understand?
For example, when we're on a train,
we're sitting in one place. But the train is
moving, yet I'm still saying I'm
sitting still on the train as if the whole train
is moving, right? We're still
in motion, aren't we? So, "still" here refers to a
certain level of stillness, but the
meaning here is that the mind is calm and
focused. Of
course, it's at a certain level,
just like meditation, managing the
mind to a certain degree, taming the mind to a
certain level. There are
many different levels in this. So
now, if people combine the two words "
meditation" and "concentration,"
then meditation is
the method of training,
practicing, and managing the mind to bring it
to a state of calm and concentration. That's exactly it,
because any meditation leads to calmness, whether it's
this kind of calmness or that kind of calmness. A
lot of calmness, a little calmness. So, actually, when people
talk about meditation, they often mention the
word "concentration" so that the general public can see it.  It's
also complicated when we learn and
listen, but we use words
without understanding them thoroughly, so
it's difficult to get it right.
First, let's look at two definitions that the general
public understands: Meditation is a
method of working with the mind, training the mind,
taming the mind, managing the mind. Concentration means the
mind is in a state of abiding or
focused concentration. Meditation usually
leads to concentration, so it's called
meditative concentration. Now, I'll expand
on this a bit so the general public can understand. Now,
let's move on to the second part:
what is avoiding? Is avoiding right or wrong?
This is something we use daily:
living righteously. In
Confucianism, people
also use the word "right." Right, right, cultivating oneself, managing the
family, governing the country, bringing
peace to the world—
all use the word "right." So,
what does the word "right" mean? It means
straight, correct,
accurate,
not
deviating,
good, beautiful—basically, that's it.
This word "right" has
so many meanings: straight, correct, right.
No, that crooked thing isn't called
right, is it? Right,
right, not wrong, it's in the middle, that's what people
call right. The middle is
in the middle, that's in the middle, going in the middle of the road,
people also call it right, not deviating.
Which side is not deviating? Which side is
good, beautiful? Those are the words "right."
Of course, no one can call evil "
right," bad can't be called right.
So we see,
this word "right" is so
complex. A righteous person, a genuine person,
a genuine quality, all have
this meaning of "right."
Because later we will
have to relate to the concept of "right mindfulness,"
so we must understand
this word "right." Let's move on to the three smaller words: what is mindfulness? The
Dharma studies are also complex.
Mindfulness is the most important word now. What is mindfulness? We use this word "mindfulness"
quite a lot in our daily lives,
especially for us Buddhists. We
often talk about "mindfulness." Are
mind and mindfulness
different? The teacher will expand a little here:
mind...  That's our knowledge.
We're called living beings
because we have this mind, we know,
right? A piece of earth, a stone, it has no
mind. A house pillar has no mind, it
knows nothing. If you hit it, it doesn't hurt, it doesn't
argue back, it doesn't curse back. But we, because we
have a mind, we argue back immediately when you hit or scold us, we
fight back
immediately. So this mind is what we call knowledge. This mind knows many things; it knows about the past, the present, the future. It can even imagine many things—it's all this mind. It can imagine even things people call turtle hair or rabbit horns,
right? I haven't seen
them. For example, I haven't seen a
mermaid, but I can imagine a
mermaid, right? But who has ever seen a mermaid?
Or people imagine people
round like marbles, even though I've never seen
anyone round like a marble.
That's why in cartoons there
are people drawn as marbles that just
roll around—understand? So it's
all imagination.  It's just an image, I haven't actually
seen it, so this mind
knows, it knows, and it knows many things in many
ways. And then there's this word "mindfulness," this
word "mindfulness." The teacher will expand on it first, then later
he'll define the word "mindfulness."
In Sanskrit, it's the word "
sati."
Sanskrit is "sati," like this: sati. And in Chinese characters, it
's this word:
above is the word "Kim,"
below is the word "
Tâm." The Chinese character for "
mindfulness" is written by combining
two characters: above is the word "Kim,"
below is the word "Tâm.
" It means present, current, present moment.
And the word "Tâm" is still the word "Tâm,"
which is the knowing, the knowing. So, "
mindfulness" is also mind, but what kind of mind is it?
It's the mind that knows
right now, right
here, right now. It's not somewhere else. So, "mindfulness"
is also mind, but it's not necessarily mind.  "Have you
all understood the concept of 'mindfulness'? It's like waves –
they're water, but water isn't
waves. Water isn't waves, waves are water, but
water isn't waves, right?
Bread is flour, but flour is
n't just bread; it can be buns, it
can be many other things. So, 'mindfulness' is the
mind, but it's the present mind, the present knowing, the
knowing right now, right this moment, right
here. So, actually, that
Chinese character is very profound. The
Chinese, the Chinese people, they've
conceived of this word 'mindfulness'
and they wrote 'Kim Tâm,' which means the
mind and the present moment, the mind right now, the mind right this
moment. The masses know that our mind
is a flow, our mind
is a
continuous flow, like a river.
But the present moment... that's
very short. This, right this moment,
I call it 'mindfulness'. Mindfulness is still just
mind, still knowing, but it's
knowing right now, not
knowing about the distant past or
imagining things."  What distant future do the
masses understand?
Let's move on to the
definition of "thought" (or "mind"). What is "thought"? Thought
is the
mind's awareness of the present moment,
awareness of the
present moment, that is, right now, right now,
right now.
That is the meaning of the word "thought." The meaning of this word "thought" is
the mind's awareness of the present moment; it is
the awareness of the present moment.
Of course, later on, many
people also translated this word "thought" as "remembering."
Of course, knowing also means remembering; you can't not
remember. If you don't remember, you don't know anything. If
the masses don't remember anything,
how can they know anything else?
So, "thought" also means
remembering, it means storing, but the
main meaning of "thought" is
this, this is the awareness of the
present moment, direct awareness of the present moment.
So now we see
that... now, we're talking about the theory like
this, but let's look at it specifically in
our body and mind. We can't just
say it like this; the masses won't understand
it.  How do we apply this? Let me
give you an example: we close our eyes and open them, and
we see immediately. Even though we see, we don't know who's there yet. We only know that as soon as we open our eyes, we see
instantly. We open our eyes and see, but we don't yet know who
it is—who it is, who's there, who's there, who's there, who's there, who's there, who's there. We
don't even define it—whether it's
blue, red, or anything else. But when we open our
eyes, we see and know. Or, when we touch the
surface of a table, we know immediately, but
we do
n't know if
it's wood, stone, or something else. But when a Buddhist practitioner is meditating, their foot touches the ground and they know it. If it hasn't touched yet, they don't know. But they don't know if it's fabric, grass, or
something else. But that
instantaneous knowing, right there in the present moment, is
called mindfulness. That knowing, that
mindfulness, is like that—the
knowing right there in the present moment, the knowing—when
we touch something
hot, we touch it.  We
know it's hot, we react immediately, but
we don't know if it's the heat of charcoal, a
red-hot iron, or
hot water. We just feel the heat, the touch,
the heat, and we know it's hot right
away. That's the knowing, that's the knowing,
do you understand? That's the present,
direct knowing. That's
the word "mindfulness." This "mindfulness" is
our present, all-knowing mind.
And this very "mindfulness" is like that.
Now there's also the concept of "right mindfulness" and "wrong mindfulness."
In this "mindfulness," there's "right mindfulness" and "wrong mindfulness." Let's put a star on "
right mindfulness"
and "
wrong mindfulness." So, you see, "mindfulness" is this
present knowing. Why is there "right"? Why is
there "right"? Mindfulness is this direct knowing.
Why is there "right"? It's this "right"
knowing.
Why is there "right" and "wrong"?
We just learned the
words "right" and "wrong." The opposite
of "right" is "wrong," right? It's
not straight, but crooked, called "wrong." It's not straight,
right? It's crooked, broken, also called "wrong."  Evil is
not right, but wrong; evil is not in the middle, but
on one side, lệch (deviated) to one side. Do you
understand, everyone? Neither good nor evil is evil;
neither right nor bad is evil. So, when we talk
about righteousness, we understand evil; when we
talk about evil,
we also understand righteousness. Do you understand? Then
why is it that our thoughts are
so clearly defined—this is the
direct, present awareness—yet now there's this
concept of "
right mindfulness" and "mindfulness," and our meditation retreat
is a Mindfulness Meditation retreat?
So, what is right mindfulness and what is wrong mindfulness?
First, let's understand a little bit about wrong mindfulness.
Now, I'll use an example to make it
easier for everyone to understand. Thought is like a glass of clear
water, a glass of crystal-clear water—
that's mindfulness. But if you
pour ink into that glass, or
mud into it, or poison
into it, or insecticide into
it, it's still a glass of water, but it's
poisonous water, dirty water. Do you understand?
It's called dirty water, but
now it's dirty water,
poisonous water. Mindfulness is the same; mindfulness is very
clear, pure, and selfless.  It's just
this immediate, direct awareness, but
when this thought is mixed
with wrong views, greed, and hatred, it
becomes a wrong thought. A wrong thought is a
thought
tainted
by greed, hatred, and delusion, a wrong
view. Do you understand? A thought itself has
no right or wrong, but because it's
mixed, it's mixed, like water.
From ancient times, it was just H2O, but
now, people put bad chemicals in it, making it
poisonous water. At that point,
no one can just call it water anymore; it
has to be called poisonous water. Water with mud poured into it is called
dirty water.
Do you understand? Our thoughts, our awareness, are
very pure. We know, we are
very pure, but before that,
this awareness has been tainted, tainted by wrong views, greed, hatred, and delusion.
So it becomes a wrong thought. That thought,
that thought, becomes
wrong. For
example, before sitting down to a meal, we
see a very delicious and tempting dish, and
we still like it. Our greed
arises,
and when we eat the
food that's placed in it...  For example, the teacher said, "
Put a piece of spring roll
on your tongue. Do
we know that the spring roll is fatty and delicious?
But this knowledge has been
tainted by greed. Before that, we were already
greedy for this dish, weren't we?
We touch it, but we touch it in
a state of greedy mind.
This greed has already tainted
our knowledge. We know, but we are
greedy. Then that knowledge, that thought, becomes evil thought, like clear water that is
now mixed with poison, and then
that water becomes poison,
poisonous water. Do you understand, everyone? The nature
of thought is like the nature of
water; there is no good or bad in it. It's clear water,
but when it's mixed
with something, it becomes that kind of water, right? Mixing it with something makes it
blue, mixing it with something red
makes it red, mixing it with sugar makes it
sweet, mixing it with salt makes it salty. But water itself is
nothing, it's
clear as it was before. So, everyone, you see,
thought is very innocent,
right? Thought has no evil, no bad.
What's good about it? It's just knowledge, knowledge.
But when this knowledge is mixed with
these things, it becomes
good or bad, evil or righteous. That's it. Evil thoughts and
righteous thoughts. Right mindfulness here. The teacher will expand a
little. We understand evil thoughts like that.
Right mindfulness,
according to the views of some Buddhist schools, currently
has slightly different definitions. Of
course, we know that
right mindfulness must be a thought
illuminated by goodness, because
it lies within a good heart, within a good mind.
But currently, there are
some viewpoints. The teacher said, this is an
expansion. Well, according to Mahayana Buddhism,
these are called right
mindfulness. Mahayana right mindfulness is
these things, for example, the six mindfulnesses. The six mindfulnesses, these
are now transferred to the meaning of remembering, knowing, and remembering the six mindfulnesses: Mindfulness of Buddha, Mindfulness of Dharma, Mindfulness of Sangha, Mindfulness of Precepts, Mindfulness of Giving, Mindfulness of
Heaven. This is called the six mindfulnesses. The assembly
remembers the six mindfulnesses. The word "mindfulness of Buddha" now refers to
knowing about Buddha, understanding Buddha, remembering
Buddha. It is also included in the word.
The word "mindfulness" therefore refers to the
present, direct awareness. But it also
means remembering or thinking about something; remembering it is also
called mindfulness. In
Mahayana Buddhism, these are considered right mindfulness, meaning that right
mindfulness
must be wholesome. Then these wholesome thoughts
about the Buddha, we remember the Buddha, the Dharma, the Sangha, the precepts, the
giving, the heavens, or the ten
mindfulnesses. The ten mindfulnesses consist of the six
above, plus four more: mindfulness of
breath, mindfulness of death, mindfulness of the
body, and mindfulness of
stillness. People call it mindfulness of stillness,
stillness, stillness.
These ten are enough; we say
these ten to be complete. In
Mahayana Buddhism, this is right mindfulness.
We practice these ten, which also belongs
to right mindfulness.
So, in reality, Buddhists see
that in our temples, Buddhists practice the precepts, the
Six Harmonies, all of which are contained within these mindfulnesses. The
Six Harmonies also refer to the precepts; we
remember the precepts in our hearts, we remember the precepts, we respect the precepts, we remember the precepts, we
practice the precepts.
That is right mindfulness, not non-
mindfulness.  One of the so-called right
mindfulness is not evil thoughts, not
unwholesome thoughts. Remember, here, goodness is also
called
right, it is beautiful. So here, we
contemplate these are wholesome thoughts: Buddha, Dharma, Sangha,
precepts, generosity, heaven, breath,
death, body, and
stillness. All are wholesome thoughts, and this is
also called right mindfulness. According to
Mahayana Buddhism and Zen
Buddhism,
I need to elaborate a bit,
otherwise some of you who have read
Zen books might
wonder why I'm not saying anything. In
Zen Buddhism, especially the highest form of Zen,
they
define right mindfulness differently.
Right mindfulness is
non-thought; right mindfulness is
non-thought. Ah, I'm saying
this might be a bit advanced, but please take note.
You can learn more about it later.
Some of you may already know,
but it's still quite advanced.
But I can't just not
say it. If I don't say it, many people will ask, "What's
this all about? Why ca
n't I
understand?"  According to
Zen Buddhism, they say "
Right Mindfulness." They define right mindfulness
as "non-thought."
Therefore, the Sixth Patriarch, Hui Neng, took
non-thought as the principle, formlessness as the essence, and non-abiding as the
root. Hui Neng, the Sixth Patriarch of
Chinese Zen Buddhism, put non-thought as the principle and
took right mindfulness as non-thought. That
's why he said this: He has
a verse: "Without thought,
thought is right; without thought, thought becomes wrong;
without thought, thought becomes wrong."
This is a very famous saying
of the Sixth Patriarch Hui Neng to talk about
right mindfulness versus wrong thought. For him, with non-thought,
that thoughtless thought—that non-thought—is
called right mindfulness. With thought,
whatever thought there is, it becomes wrong. Do you
understand? To be more specific
about this, a disciple
of Hui Neng, later Zen Master Hui Hai,
said
this: Someone asked him, "What is wrong thought?
What is right mindfulness?" Hui Hai replied, "I understand
this."  The presence or absence of thought is a
wrong thought. The presence or absence of thought is a
wrong thought. Having this, having that, not having this, not having that, is a wrong thought, isn't it? Good thoughts and evil thoughts are
also
wrong thoughts, aren't they? Thoughts of suffering, joy, birth, death, grasping, letting go, hatred, affection,
love, and hate—all are wrong thoughts, aren't they? And not only those things are right thoughts. That's the definition. Good thoughts, evil thoughts, love, and hate—all are wrong thoughts. There is grasping and letting go;
grasping is holding on, letting go is releasing. That's the definition,
Master Hai. He defined it and also used it to prove the Sixth Patriarch's statement that non-thought is right. Then he continued, "What is right mindfulness? Right mindfulness is simply the Bodhi Mindfulness." The
other person asked, "Can
Bodhi be contemplated?" He said, "
Bodhi is unattainable, it cannot be attained." So, if Bodhi
cannot be attained, how can it be contemplated?
Here, he said, "Bodhi is illusory,
without beginning or end; because it cannot be attained, there is
no thought. That is the absence of thought—
that is true mindfulness, right mindfulness." Thus,
we see that the Zen master's
definition of right mindfulness is very...  It's
complicated. This requires
quite deep cultivation to penetrate
this concept. It's like what's
said in Zen history: When Master Huineng
received the robe and bowl from the Fifth Patriarch, he went into
hiding. Senior Monk Ming
chased after him, demanding the bowl back. When Senior Monk Ming
couldn't get the bowl, Senior Monk Ming
said, "I'm
not here for the bowl. Please
teach me the method of breaking the practice."
Then Huineng called Senior Monk Ming, "
What is it that doesn't think good, doesn't think evil?" It's the
original face of Senior Monk Ming. It's not thinking good, it's
not thinking evil. It's
not that in our minds, if we don't think
good, we think evil. It's not that
it's somewhere in between. So,
what is the
original face, the true face of
Senior Monk Ming, that doesn't think good, doesn't think evil? The Sixth Patriarch asked this question, and
upon being asked this question, Senior Monk Ming
realized the method of cultivation.
But this isn't simple. The
masses see that now, when we cultivate, if we
don't think good, we don't think evil, then
we...  We become like that, clueless and
ignorant, so
we're just clueless. This is
n't about our foundation; it has to be the
foundation of Venerable Minh.
Venerable Minh has practiced for a very long time, studied the Dharma for a long time, and practiced
meditation for a long time before he could understand
the point of enlightenment, not thinking
good or evil. But now we say, "I
don't think good or evil, I don't care, I
don't do good, I don't do anything, I just care, I'm just clueless and clueless."
Then we become
numb, right? This is wrong, so
I'm just adding this so the
audience can see. Ah, it's complicated.
And according to Theravada Buddhism,
Theravada Buddhism is
what I just said: mindfulness is
awareness, direct, present awareness.
What is mindfulness? It's a consequence
of right
view, avoiding wrong
thinking, right? Then comes right speech, right action, right
livelihood, right effort, and only then
comes mindfulness. But leading the way are right
view and right thinking. Mindfulness
is a consequence of right view, right thinking, right
speech, right action, avoiding right
livelihood, right effort, and right
mindfulness. So, to have mindfulness, you must have
right
view and right
thinking. If we don't have right view and right
thinking,
we will never have mindfulness. The audience sees it as
difficult. That's why I said that for
many years, I've been teaching the Dharma with the
purpose of dispelling wrong views for the audience, dispelling
doubts for the audience. This Dharma teaching is
for us to eliminate doubt and wrong views, to
see clearly what is right, to see what is right and what is right. That
is right view. We must see cause and effect, cause and effect, and dependent origination. We must see suffering, we
must see evil,
clearly see good and evil, which is good and which is
evil.
That is right view. With right view,
we can then think right. Only with right thinking
can we have mindfulness. The
audience sees that now
we are practicing this mindfulness.
So, according to the original Buddhism...
So, that's how it is. Therefore, I, the
teacher, take the understanding of
early Buddhism as the foundation to show the
congregation what mindfulness is: mindfulness that
illuminates and
guides by Right View, avoiding deluded thinking. From
here, the congregation will see mindfulness.
Then comes what comes in the Noble Eightfold Path: mindfulness, then Right Concentration, then
Right Concentration, and
with Right Concentration comes Right Wisdom, which
is
enlightenment. Why is it that the non-Buddhists before the Buddha,
especially the two very famous teachers who
taught Prince Siddhartha—you
see, the two teachers,
Ajakma and Eddham, taught
Prince Siddhartha to practice and attain
very high states of concentration, right? The realm of boundless emptiness, the realm of
boundless consciousness, the realm of nothingness,
and the realm of neither perception nor non-perception—
these are the highest states of concentration. But even those states of concentration did not lead to
enlightenment because they were wrong states of concentration.
Those states of concentration were
guided and illuminated by wrong views from the very beginning.
These two teachers, when practicing
these states of concentration, were already guided and illuminated by wrong views.  Before,
you all lacked
that right view, so even though you had a
very
high level of concentration, it was wrong concentration. That's why
Prince Siddhartha later had to abandon
this concentration. Achieving the state of neither perception nor non-
perception is not easy, is it? It was
very difficult and required a lot of effort,
but in the end, you did not attain
enlightenment. You did not achieve Buddhahood. Therefore, only
through right view and right thinking can you
achieve right concentration, and right concentration leads to enlightenment.
Do you see? So here, I also say
that concentration is like a glass of water that has frozen.
Before, you poured poison,
mud, and ink into this glass of water, and it froze. It's just
like concentration. The word "frozen" is
called concentration. Do you
understand? But that ice is deadly
because it contains poison,
right? It's dirty, it doesn't reflect light, it ca
n't do anything.
So, a glass of water that has been filtered
clean, all the mud and dirt are gone, it
becomes a block of ice. Can we
eat that ice?
Right? That stone is incredibly
useful. That's why here, the teacher
explains it so that everyone understands. Why is it that even though it's the same
concentration, the concentration of the two teachers,
Siddhartha and his disciples, was so high, yet they did
n't achieve enlightenment or attain Buddhahood?
Remember, concentration alone isn't what helps us achieve
enlightenment. It has to be some kind of concentration, it has to be right concentration. And to
achieve right concentration, it must be a consequence of right view and right thinking. Of course, with right view and right thinking, there will be right speech, right action, right livelihood, right effort, and right mindfulness. From right mindfulness, there
is right concentration, and only with right concentration can there be
enlightenment. That's how we see it.
And specifically in
Buddhism, in the original scriptures,
this right mindfulness is established. The audience understands right mindfulness now, right
mindfulness. So, to have right
mindfulness, we must learn to open up right view. That's
why right view is so important in Zen Buddhism. Right view is
called transcendental
view, wrong view is worldly view, and right mindfulness
is established.
Right mindfulness in
Buddhism is
established on...  Four
areas, four
areas—those four areas are the
body,
feelings, and what else, the assembly—that
is, they are very skilled in the
Dharma, and what do we call this?
This is the Four
Foundations of Mindfulness. That's it, right mindfulness in Buddhism. The
Buddha here, I'm talking about it once more. In
Theravada Buddhism, there
are up to ten of
these mindfulnesses. In Theravada Buddhism, right mindfulness is placed
on these four areas, meaning
we must have
genuine mindfulness illuminated by right view—right view—
about the body, feelings, mind, and phenomena. And
this meditation retreat of ours is Mindfulness Meditation.
Mindfulness meditation means a
method of training and taming the mind, managing the
mind based on right view to achieve right
mindfulness, to bring the mind to a state of
tranquility and achieve right concentration. And with right concentration comes enlightenment.
That's what we
will learn today, the assembly. You see, it's
not simply about talking about Buddhist teachings.
But it's not
simple. Why am I introducing a
branch of Mahayana Buddhism here? Because
Mahayana Buddhism is called the Buddha.  Later Buddhist teachings
have expanded and become more
flexible, but in early Buddhism, it
's about mindfulness. The Buddha spoke of
mindfulness, and where is this mindfulness? Mindfulness
in these four areas, for me only: mindfulness
of the body, mindfulness of the body is
to understand the body correctly, to know the body
correctly; mindfulness
of feelings, the sensations
we experience; mindfulness of our mind, mindfulness of the
phenomena in our mind,
called phenomena, that is, to understand very clearly
this body and mind. The Four Foundations of Mindfulness
are truly a
tool to explore this body and mind,
to see the truth about this body and mind. Of
course, in this meditation course,
we cannot go through all
four foundations of mindfulness. We will practice the
very basic ones.
Sometimes we might only get through one part
of it. Just one part.
Maybe we only focus on mindfulness of the body.
Mindfulness of the body means focusing on a specific part of the
body, not everything. It takes many
courses, many courses. It's good,
but the teacher is guiding the congregation
here so they can see and understand.  First,
let's understand what meditation is. The
universal definition of meditation: what is meditation? Meditation
means anything related to
taming the mind, training the mind,
managing the mind. We
don't know the levels of meditation, but generally, that's what we
call meditation, right? It's called concentration.
What is concentration? Concentration is the
state of mind that is calm and peaceful.
How is it calm and peaceful? Is it eating
in darkness or eating in
light and clarity?
Right concentration is clear and clear, while wrong concentration is concentration that is dark and
not clear and clear. Sitting still in
darkness, do you understand? That's
concentration. And then, what is "righteousness"
? We know that "righteousness" means being upright,
correct, good, and virtuous.
And "righteousness" also means non-thought, which,
according to Zen Buddhism, is non-thought.
Actually, this is
n't wrong, dear audience. This is
n't wrong at all. Achieving
this true essence is also "righteousness," and
our true essence is truly non-thought.
Do you understand? Next, let's move on
to Righteous Meditation.  Mindfulness meditation
is a method of training and
managing the mind based on right
view and right thinking to achieve right
mindfulness and attain right
concentration. It's
not simple, dear audience. So,
through today's lesson,
we see how the teacher guides
us to understand
these issues. We understand that
mindfulness meditation is one of the
tools, the means to explore our
body and mind, to understand our body and mind, to
see the truth about our body and mind. Seeing this
truth is enlightenment, it's
attainment of the Way. It's
not just about seeing what's
right. So, let's
stop here for today's lesson. Next time,
we will delve into the details of the
Dharma teachings and practice. Do
you find it difficult? If you haven't
studied it, it seems very complicated.
Why do
we find it difficult? Because we've neglected it for
too many lifetimes—not just
many years, but many lifetimes—and now,
returning to it, we're still confused and bewildered.  It's
not far away, right here in our own home, right here in
our own home. We don't know
what it is, do we? We don't know
anything at all. Truly, we are very ungrateful.
Now, turning back, we are
bewildered, confused, and don't know anything. We
only talk about things happening in
our own home. We don't know anything at all. We do
n't know about mindfulness, we do
n't know about the mind, we don't know right from wrong. Do you all see that?
Truly, we are very, very foolish. Yes, so
now we must learn, we must
return to see it, to understand it
fully, to understand it correctly, so that we can practice,
we can explore this body and mind, to awaken
to this body and mind, which is also to
awaken to this world. That's why the Buddha said, "Right here
in this one-foot-long body, I declare about the world." That's the declaration about the world, the declaration about the arising of this world and the cessation of this world. Only in this body alone can
we see how
wonderful it is to explore this body, how
wonderful it is, just like the masses see the
atom. They explore the
atomic nucleus and ultimately become...
The extremely large energy from a nuclear bomb blast
becomes the energy we
call a nuclear bomb. Why is that?
Because atoms are
released, creating
such terrifying energy. And yet,
we've discovered
this very body, and we haven't found anything.
It would be amazing if the masses
remembered to practice. Of course, the
beginning of practice will be boring, like digging for
gold. Gold isn't always
exposed; you
have to dig a lot, a lot of effort, and only after a long time will you
see the gold. It's
not like you find gold instantly.
Why? Because for so many
lifetimes, we've let dust and ignorance
cover our body and mind. So
we have to put in a lot of effort, grinding,
filtering, and cleansing to see the water that's
too murky. Then we
have to filter and strain for a long time to see the
clear water. And once the water is clear, the masses can
see it.  Not seeing the countless shrimp,
fish, and beautiful scenery at the bottom of the sea is truly
amazing. At that moment, our minds are
intoxicated, and it's
not that we're tired of it now,
but if we persevere, we
'll see how wonderful it is.
Once again, I wish the congregation diligence
in
this Dharma. May the congregation clasp their hands in reverence and
dedicate this merit to
all
disciples and
sentient beings, that they may all attain
Buddhahood.
[Music]